README.md, before:

==================
CEP2SPARQL Example
==================

_Note: To run the example, [INSTANS](https://github.com/aaltodsg/instans) needs to be [installed](https://github.com/aaltodsg/instans/wiki). It is also assumed that
the $INSTANS_HOME environment variable points to the INSTANS root directory._

This example considers all the types of event processing agents listed in [1] and shows a translation of each type into
SPARQL 1.1, forming an interconnected SPARQL-based event processing
network. Further background:

Rinne, M.; Nuutila, E.: [Constructing Event Processing Systems of
Layered and Heterogeneous Events with SPARQL](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-662-45563-0_42). The 13th International
Conference on Ontologies, DataBases, and Applications of Semantics
(ODBASE 2014, 27-31 Oct, Amantea, Italy). First published by Springer.

* [Paper](http://www.cs.hut.fi/~mjrinne/papers/odbase2014/Constructing%20Event%20Processing%20Systems%20of%20Layered%20and%20Heterogeneous%20Events%20with%20SPARQL%20%28annotated%20author%20copy%29.pdf)
* [Presentation](http://www.cs.hut.fi/~mjrinne/papers/odbase2014/Constructing%20Event%20Processing%20Systems%20with%20SPARQL.pdf)

The command line to run the example is in the one-line shell script "cep2sparql.sh":

$ ./cep2sparql.sh

The example does not run a remote service query in EPA 3, but uses a
fixed local binding instead.

The following files are involved:
* _queries/EPA-All.rq:_ SPARQL implementation of eight types of event processing agents (EPA), interconnected.
* _cep2sparql.sh:_ The command line to run a verbose version with a small
number of test events.
* _queries/construct-event-output.rq:_ An auxiliary SPARQL query to CONSTRUCT
output of events passing between different EPAs.
* _input/CEP2SPARQL_SampleEvents.trig:_ The sample events in TriG format.
* _input/CEP2SPARQL_SamplePattern.trig:_ A sample pattern for pattern detection
(EPA 8) in TriG format.
* _sample-output/running\_sample.txt:_ Sample output produced by running
  _cep2sparql.sh_. The format is otherwise TriG, but since it also
  includes the execution timer outputs - which are not
  TriG-compliant - it is listed here as .txt.

[1] Etzion, Luckham, Niblett: Event Processing in Action. Manning Publications (Jul 2010)

Commit message:

Performance tests and results for up to 10k events added.

README.md, after:

==================
CEP2SPARQL Example
==================

_Note: To run the example, [INSTANS](https://github.com/aaltodsg/instans) needs to be [installed](https://github.com/aaltodsg/instans/wiki). It is also assumed that
the $INSTANS_HOME environment variable points to the INSTANS root directory._

This example considers all the types of event processing agents listed in [1] and shows a translation of each type into
SPARQL 1.1, forming an interconnected SPARQL-based event processing
network. Further background:

Rinne, M.; Nuutila, E.: [Constructing Event Processing Systems of
Layered and Heterogeneous Events with SPARQL](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-662-45563-0_42). The 13th International
Conference on Ontologies, DataBases, and Applications of Semantics
(ODBASE 2014, 27-31 Oct, Amantea, Italy). First published by Springer.

* [Paper](http://www.cs.hut.fi/~mjrinne/papers/odbase2014/Constructing%20Event%20Processing%20Systems%20of%20Layered%20and%20Heterogeneous%20Events%20with%20SPARQL%20%28annotated%20author%20copy%29.pdf)
* [Presentation](http://www.cs.hut.fi/~mjrinne/papers/odbase2014/Constructing%20Event%20Processing%20Systems%20with%20SPARQL.pdf)

A quick test is included in the one-line shell script "cep2sparql.sh":

$ ./cep2sparql.sh

This example runs a combination of all the 8 types of event processing
agents introduced in the paper. A sample output for comparison is
available in _sample-output/cep2sparql\_output.txt_ .

The `scripts` directory contains the following batch files, which
serve also as command line parameter reference for individual trials:

* `batch_test.sh` runs the sample events through each type of EPA separately
  as well as the EPA-All combination. Sample results in
  _sample-output/batch\_test\_output.txt_ . Please note that this
  batch also runs EPA3 over the remote SERVICE request, other batches
  only use a local BIND.
* `batch_run.sh` runs 1000 events through each type of EPA separately
  as well as the EPA-All combination. Sample results in
  _sample-output/batch\_run\_output.txt_ .
* `batch_speed.sh` measures the execution speed of each EPA separately
  as well as the EPA-All combination for 1, 100, 1000 and 10000
  events. Sample results executed on our platform in
  _sample-output/batch\_speed\_results.txt_ . Comparison results using
  explicit cleanup-queries in EPAs 1-5 are in _sample-output/batch\_speed\_cleanup\_results.txt_ .

Formatted results can be found in the _results_ folder.

[1] Etzion, Luckham, Niblett: Event Processing in Action. Manning Publications (Jul 2010)
